[Music]
The definition of parallel lines is such
that if two lines have the same slope
then they are parallel. The other way of
saying that is if the two lines are
parallel then they have the same slope.
Okay. Look at this. Given the equation y
= 2x + 3 the line if you graph it will
look like that. Notice the slope is two.
If you have y = 2x - 1, a different
equation, the slope is 2. Therefore, if
you draw the line, they are going to be
parallel to each other. A third one, y =
2x - 4. Once again, the slope is 2.
Therefore, if you draw the line, that
line will be parallel to the other two
lines as well. Here's an example where
if you're given the equation y = -2 over
3x - 3 and we want to find the equation
of a line that's parallel to that line
and contains the point -6, 2. First of
all, since the slope of the given line
is -2 over3, then the parallel line will
have the slope of -2 over3 also. So
we'll begin by writing the equation y =
-2 over 3x + b where b is the y
intercept where we don't know yet.
However, we could find the value of b by
plugging in one of the points that's on
the line where in this case is going to
be -6, 2. So we have 2 for the value of
y and
we'll plug in -6 for the value of x
plus b. Well, we could go ahead and
reduce this by canceling canceling off
the three and the six and making that
into a -2. And then -2 * -2 is pos4
making the value of b = -2. Then our
final answer or the equation of the
graph that's per parallel to the line y
= -2 3x - 3 is going to be y = -2 over
3x
- 2.
Then what about perpendicular lines? The
definition says that if a nonvertical
line is perpendicular to another line
and the slopes of the lines are negative
reciprocal of each other. Meaning if the
slope of a line is a over b, then slope
of another line that's perpendicular to
it will beb
over a.
For example, if we're given y = 2x + 1
and y = - 12x - 3. Notice that the slope
here is 2, whereas the slope here is -
1/2. So, it's negative reciprocal of
each other. Therefore, these two lines
are going to be perpendicular to each
other. Let's use this in a problem.
If we're given y = -2x + 4 and we want
to find the equation of a line that's
perpendicular to this line that contains
the point -2, 5. Now, first we need to
find the slope of the line that's
perpendicular to y = -2x + 4. Slope of
-2x is going to be -2, which we can
rewrite it as -2 over 1. and negative
reciprocal of -2 over 1 is going to be
1/2.
So slope of the new line that's
perpendicular is going to be 12. So
let's begin by saying y = 12 x + b as
the equation of the line that's
perpendicular to the given line.
And then to find the y intercept, we'll
plug in -2 for x and five for y.
like that where 12 and -2 will be -1
giving us the value of b as 6. Then our
final equation of the per perpendicular
line will be y = 12x plus the y
intercept that we just found or
six.
[Music]